README.md, before:

## Projects for the Online Portfolio of Richard S. Hetley

I created this public repository while pursuing an M.S. in Game Design & Development at Rochester Institute of Technology.  Course projects, both individual and group, have involved use of C# and Unity to create videogames of differing levels of complexity.  Files in this repository are considered finished and playable.

### Tiny Ghost MVI Version (/TinyGhost)

A team effort to prototype a videogame using agile development with Scrum.  The plan for this semester is to create a single level of a 3-D physics puzzle platformer aimed to an audience of children ages 8-12.  This folder contains the production documentation (including market research) for the project as well as a Windows executable for the "minimum viable interaction" demo.  (WASD/Q/E to move, ctrl to possess/unpossess objects, shift to force unpossess, space to perform object action.)

### Excessively Acronymed Educational Adventure (Obviously) (/EAEAO)

Team submission for Jam for a Cause 2019, a 24-hour game jam at RIT.  The theme was "education."  We collaborated on game design and then launched into learning 2-D Unity.  I designed the levels, including some that remain in the project assets unconnected to main play.  For further information and game controls, see its readme on this portfolio.

### Predictable Cave Adventure (/DataDrivenCave)

I coded three versions of this text adventure, which is one more than the assignment required: a first pass which told a single complete story, a second "enhanced" version with puzzle mechanics, and a final "data-driven" version refactoring the original to incorporate a data-driven approach.  This final version has 42 rooms (the data-driven element), an expanded puzzle, an in-game help system, and an implied story hiding behind the game world.

Commit message:

Updated readme after MVP playtesting

README.md, after:

## Projects for the Online Portfolio of Richard S. Hetley

I created this public repository while pursuing an M.S. in Game Design & Development at Rochester Institute of Technology.  Course projects, both individual and group, have involved use of C# and Unity to create videogames of differing levels of complexity.  Files in this repository are considered finished and playable.

### Tiny Ghost MVP Version (/TinyGhost)

A team effort to prototype a videogame using agile development with Scrum.  The plan for this semester was to create a 3-D physics puzzle platformer aimed to an audience of children ages 8-12.  I performed production, mechanic design, level design, and coding.  This folder contains the production documentation (including market research) for the project as well as a Windows executable for the "minimum viable product" playtest.  (WASD/Q/E to move, ctrl to possess/unpossess objects, hold ctrl to force unpossess, space to perform object action.)

### Excessively Acronymed Educational Adventure (Obviously) (/EAEAO)

Team submission for Jam for a Cause 2019, a 24-hour game jam at RIT.  The theme was "education."  We collaborated on game design and then launched into learning 2-D Unity.  I performed mechanic design and level design, including some levels that remain in the project assets unconnected to main play, and finalized the mechanic code after completion.  For further information and game controls, see its readme on this portfolio.

### Predictable Cave Adventure (/DataDrivenCave)

I coded three versions of this text adventure, which is one more than the assignment required: a first pass which told a single complete story, a second "enhanced" version with puzzle mechanics, and a final "data-driven" version refactoring the original to incorporate a data-driven approach.  This final version has 42 rooms (the data-driven element), an expanded puzzle, an in-game help system, and an implied story hiding behind the game world.
