# Final Retrospective (it’s not a postmortem; no one died)
In team formation, one positive thing that happened was that we had a good mix of concept/3D artists, programmers, and designers.  It was less helpful how little we all understood Unity to start; but, all together, we needed to learn things like Probuilder anyway, so we worked well together.

For task management, GitHub Projects was less than maximally helpful.  It meant that we had a record of what we had done, but wasn’t helpful in leading us on to our next tasks; typically, we knew what needed to be done anyway, and Projects was slow.  A positive was the ability to link issue cards to their respective epic, because with this at least we could see which areas (programming, levels) were further along.

Version control on GitHub was more helpful, which made sense as that was the initial point behind the thing.  Once we learned how to do it, the whole team used versioning, we updated to proper branches-of-branches, and periodically we got back together to make sure we all knew where features were in development and to trim branches.  The only frustration was that it never became clear why GitHub would either 1), declare clean branches as being both “ahead” and “behind” a main branch, then show no conflict upon merge, or 2), give no indication of a problem and then conflict upon merge.  We were slowed by the lack of clear, communicable methods for resolving those conflicts.

General team communication using our agreed channels worked well.  Once we figured out why Discord wasn’t sending notifications to some people, we could depend on the chat system for reaching everyone efficiently.  Communicating by using the GitHub Projects board wasn’t as good, mostly because we only touched issue cards when we were talking in person and assigning work live.  If we ever had gotten to the point that we were working on this project exclusively, it’s possible that the self-claiming of new issues would have added to the communication.  Discord, with its lower formality, accomplished more for us.

Concepting went smoothly, and we created what we feel could be a complete game idea. Looking back, we would divide our accomplishments into mechanics and content: for mechanics, we completed three-quarters of our initial concept; for content, we completed one-quarter of it.

For content: While Tiny Ghost by itself was an adorable creation that came to life(hehe), one major gripe we had was that our time frame did not permit us to create Lakittyu the Ghost Cat - a character to whom most of us looked forward. We also could not incorporate the antagonist ghost, the family members, and cause of the curse. We couldn’t fit in the diverse environments that we initially intended to create, such as the various levels - dining room table, etc - which therefore meant we were only talking about “one person’s story” in the level content we created.

For mechanics: We were able to create a fairly extensible system for objects and their behaviours. It took a fair bit of back-and-forth to nail all the details of our ideal architecture down, however; in the future we would likely focus on exposing possible conflicting ideas the programmers have about the architecture. That said, after this was solidified, we had an easy enough time importing new objects.

Tangent to the above, we used a variety of assets obtained for free from the Unity Asset Store which we were able to integrate fairly smoothly into our framework of object mechanics. We were unable to find appropriate assets for the ghost and the gumball machine, but we did manage to create suitable assets for that within the team.

Our concept was supported well by the market research we did - and, in part, that is why we wanted to deliver more than we did (we wanted a full family in the game). The mechanics, though, matched the interest and ability of the target audience as well as we had hoped. With the initial playtest involving a group of middle school children, we were pleased to see that the sandbox level we created was very well received. Some spent their time delighting in the various interactions that were available – such as being able to hop around on-screen or posses various objects, while others decided to test the boundaries of the room, and fall off the world (fun).

By our definitions, though we “scoped down” from the concept in order to get what we delivered, we still delivered more than we initially planned for the MVI and MVP.  This meant music, infinite gumballs, possession “lasers,” a force unpossession command, and more than just a single level.  Of course, the definition of “more” is itself a bit ambiguous, as we wanted all these things very much anyway.